NZIF 2015 Code of Conduct
=========================

The New Zealand Improv Festival is governed by the newly established New Zealand
Improvisation Trust. Our principles, as laid out in our trust deed:

> **3.** The Trust is committed, in attaining its purposes, to
>
> > **3.1.** supporting, creating and presenting work that is accessible, diverse, and
> > respectful of our practitioners and our audience; and
> >
> > **3.2.** maintaining the highest standards of professionalism and integrity.

The NZIF therefore asks all participating in our workshops, performances,
networking and social events to commit to these principles, to respect each
other and our audience, and to maintain professionalism and integrity. We are
all ambassadors of our community and should behave accordingly.

In addition we are dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for
everyone, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical
appearance, body type, race, or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of
festival participants in any form.

All communication should be appropriate for a professional audience including
people of many different backgrounds. This applies both to performance and
teaching. We are aware that you are working in the moment and that sometimes
inappropriate things come out (especially in workshops), and sometimes audience
suggestions will be less than savoury. We trust that you will use your
professional judgement as teachers and performers to ensure the work we present
does not become inappropriate or harmful. Remember, you are not obliged to
accept audience suggestions that do not inspire you or that will lead to work
that falls outside of these guidelines.

Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other attendees. Behave
professionally. Remember that harassment and sexist, racist, or exclusionary
jokes are not appropriate for the New Zealand Improv Festival, both onstage and
off.

If you would like to report or discuss any situations such as above, you have
several ports of call: Festival Director Jennifer Oâ€™Sullivan, Participant
Liaison Catherine Hart, or your own director or teacher. Any of the festival
team will assist in the short term. Contact information will be provided upon
arrival at the festival.

When onsite at any festival venue (BATS Theatre and Lumen, social events at
bars, workshops offsite) please adhere to all safety guidelines, and to any and
all instructions given by venue management and festival staff. Be on time and
prepared for shows, call times, and workshops. Respect the facilities. Report
any hazards or accidents promptly and honestly. Be a good neighbour. Make the
festival look good.

Attendees violating these rules may be asked to leave the festival without a
refund at the sole discretion of the festival organizers.

Thank you for helping make this a welcoming, friendly event for all.

Got a question? Drop Jen a line at producer@nzimprovfestival.co.nz
